                Cyrus IMAP Server Release Information

    IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) is an Internet standards-track
    protocol for accessing messages (mail, bboards, news, etc). The Cyrus
    IMAP server differs from other IMAP server implementations in that it
    is generally intended to be run on "sealed" servers, where normal users
    are not permitted to log in. The mailbox database is stored in parts of
    the filesystem that are private to the Cyrus IMAP system. All user
    access to mail is through the IMAP, POP3, or KPOP protocols. 

    The private mailbox database design gives the server large advantages
    in efficiency, scalability, and administratability. Multiple concurrent
    read/write connections to the same mailbox are permitted. The server
    supports access control lists on mailboxes and storage quotas on
    mailbox hierarchies. 

    This system should be expected to have the same order-of-magnitude
    installation complexity as a netnews system. Maintenance should have
    similar complexity, except administrators will have to deal with
    creation and deletion of users and will have the option of managing
    quotas and access control lists. 

    This server has been successfully installed on a number of Unix
    systems. The following are notes on particular Unix variants: 

      * HP-UX 9.0.4: Comments from testers: 

        The C that ships with HP-UX is totally unsuited for use with unix
        packages. Either the HP-UX ANSI C developers kit must be purchased
        separately from HP or GNU's gcc compiler (which can bootstrap
        itself from the basic HP C) must be built on the target system. 

        The author further notes that the memory mapping support in HP-UX
        is lacking on 9.0 versions of HP-UX and 10.20 as well; it appears
        this is related to the hardware's use of inverse page tables. It is
        recommended that large-scale sites consider using some other
        platform for IMAP servers. 

    The following are notes on specific Unix features: 

      * On any system with shadow passwords (including Solaris 2.5 with
        Unix authentication), see the file "pwcheck/README" in the
        distribution. 

    Send problems/questions/suggestions to cyrus-bugs@andrew.cmu.edu. 

    The "info-cyrus@andrew.cmu.edu" mailing list exists for the discussion
    of this server and other Cyrus software. Send mail to
    "info-cyrus-request@andrew.cmu.edu" to subscribe. 

    The Cyrus server supports the IMAP4rev1 protocol described in RFC 2060,
    with the exception that it does not currently support the hierarchical
    behavior of the RENAME command. IMAP4rev1 has been approved as a
    proposed standard. 

    Character sets supported for searching are: us-ascii, iso-8859-1,
    iso-8859-2, iso-8859-3, iso-8859-4, iso-8859-5, iso-8859-6, iso-8859-7,
    iso-8859-8, iso-8859-9, koi8-r, and iso-2022-jp. The character mapping
    tables most likely contain errors. 

    The server may be compiled to support the KERBEROS_V4 authentication
    mechanism described in RFC 1731. The POP3 server can support MIT's KPOP
    protocol. 

    The mailbox namespace is like that for netnews--hierarchical names
    separated by the "." character. Mailboxes without a parent may only be
    created by an administrator. Mailboxes with a parent may be created as
    the ACL (Access Control List) on the parent mailbox permits. 

    Users' personal mailboxes are under the "user" hierarchy. The names of
    the personal mailboxes for user "bovik" all start with the prefix
    "user.bovik.". The mailbox "user.bovik" is special in that it is
    presented to user "bovik" as if it were named "INBOX". Creating the
    mailbox "user.bovik" is equivalent to creating an account for user
    "bovik"--it permits "bovik" to receive mail, create personal mailboxes,
    and subscribe to mailboxes. Deleting the mailbox "user.bovik" has the
    special-case side-effect of deleting all mailboxes starting with
    "user.bovik." and of deleting the subscriptions for "bovik." 

    If you want to install the server, be sure to read the install
    instructions along with the server overview. 

