Upgrading From Previous Versions

Upgrading from 1.6

      * Upgrading from the Cyrus IMAP server version 1.6.13 or earlier: if
        you use Sieve, you should run the "tools/upgradesieve" script, as
        the format of the "/usr/sieve" directory has changed slightly.
        timsieved, included in this release, will handle maintenance of
        Sieve scripts. 
      * Upgrading from the Cyrus IMAP server version 1.6.10 or earlier: if
        you export news via the IMAP server, you'll have to change your
        "newsfeeds" file to contain 

        collectnews!:*:Tf,WR:collectnews

        The format of the input to collectnews has changed. Duplicate
        delivery suppression is now required for Sieve. 
      * Upgrading from the Cyrus IMAP server version 1.6.1 or earlier
        (including 1.5.x!): the quota and user directories are now hashed
        by the first character of the username. This is to reduce the
        number of entries in any given directory. It doesn't do a great job
        (and in some cases it will do a really poor job) but as a quick
        hack it shouldn't make things worse. Optionally, the data
        partitions can also be hashed by enabling the "hashimapspool"
        option. 

        You must hash your directories using the "dohash" script in the
        tools subdirectory. (If you want to hash your mail spool, be sure
        to set "hashimapspool" before running "dohash".) This must be run
        as the Cyrus user. Be sure to stop mail service while converting.
        Doing this in single user mode is probably the safest. 

Upgrading from 1.5

      * Upgrading from the Cyrus IMAP server version 1.5 or earlier:
        libsasl is now required. Configuring SASL to work may be a chore,
        especially if you use shadow passwords. 
      * An ANSI C compiler is now required. gcc should work fine and can be
        acquired from http://www.gnu.org/software/gcc/gcc.html. 
      * Make sure to read the upgrading instructions under 1.6 above. 
      * Upgrading from 1.5.14 or earlier requires deleting the delivered
        database. Remove the file delivered.db in the configdirectory and
        make a directory called "deliverdb" in the configdirectory. This
        may cause some duplicates to get through. 
      * Upgrading from 1.5.14 or earlier requires removing the PTS cache
        database (if the AFS PTS group support is used, which is not the
        default). The PTS cache is in /var/ptclient/ptscache.db, and you
        should remove it. This is because the format for the PTS cache for
        IMSP has changed. If you use AFS ACLs, IMSPd, and IMAPd on the same
        machine, make sure you have version 1.5a5 of the IMSP server for
        this version of the IMAP server. (If you don't have IMSP, or AFS,
        don't worry about it.) 

