Prerequisites and other notes

    The following programs and/or packages are required. 

      * libsasl, version 1.5.15 or higher. To obtain libsasl, ftp it from
        ftp.andrew.cmu.edu. Earlier versions of SASL will not work; please
        get the latest one. Configure SASL so that it supports whatever
        authentication method your site uses. Please pay careful attention
        to the SASL configuration. This is the biggest problem that most
        people have. 
      * Berkeley DB, version 3.0.55 or higher. Berkeley DB can be obtained
        from Sleepycat. 
      * GNU Make is required. Get it from the Free Software Foundation. It
        is probably easier to find it via ftp. 

    The following programs and/or packages are required for specific
    features. If you don't have them, certain features of the IMAP server
    will be disabled. 

      * makedepend. A version is included in the makedepend subdirectory of
        the distribution. Try and install it before installing the Cyrus
        IMAPd. If it fails, the configure script will use a dummy shell
        script instead of makedepend, and you should be sure to always give
        the command "make clean" before "make all". If you don't mind
        builds taking longer, this isn't a big deal and you can ignore any
        makedepend errors. 
      * Tcl, version 7.5 or 7.6, or 8.0. To obtain Tcl, see the
        comp.lang.tcl FAQ. Other versions of Tcl might work, but it must be
        at least Tcl 7.5. (Tcl 7.4 ships with some Unix variants, and it is
        not sufficient.), for the older cyradm. 
      * Perl, version 5. To obtain Perl, see the comprehensive Perl
        archive. This is required for the newer version of cyradm written
        by Brandon Allbery. It is also used for some installation scripts:
        you don't need it but it may make your life easier. 
      * OpenSSL, version 0.9.4 or higher. Required for STARTTLS support and
        eventually for IMAP wrapped in SSL (the imaps port). Available from
        http://www.openssl.org/. 
      * If you use AFS PTS support for groups, Cyrus still depends on
        Kerberos and AFS. If you successfully compiled SASL with your
        Kerberos library, it's likely that it will work well with Cyrus. 
      * We recommend using an MTA (mail transfer agent) that supports LMTP
        (local mail transfer protocol). We use Sendmail and recommend
        version 8.10.0 or higher, available from http://www.sendmail.org.
