Installing Sieve

    This section assumes that you compiled Cyrus with sieve support. If you
    specified --disable-sieve when running ./configure, you did NOT compile
    the server with sieve support. 

    A brief introduction to Sieve at is available from Cyrusoft
    International. 

Configure outgoing mail

    Some Sieve actions (redirect, vacation) can send outgoing mail. 

    You'll need to make sure that "lmtpd" can send outgoing messages.
    Currently, it invokes "/usr/lib/sendmail" by default to send messages.
    Change this by adding a line like: 

       sendmail: /usr/sbin/sendmail

    in your "/etc/imapd.conf". If you're using Postfix or another MTA, make
    sure that the sendmail referenced in "/etc/imapd.conf" is
    Sendmail-compatible. 

Managing Sieve Scripts

    Since Cyrus is based around the concept of a sealed-server, the normal
    way for users to manipulate Sieve scripts is through the "installsieve"
    utility. 

    If, for some reason, you do have user home directories on the server,
    you can use the "sieveusehomedir" option and have the sieve script
    stored in the home directory of the user as "~/.sieve". 

Testing the sieve server

     1. The Sieve server, "timsieved", is used for transporting user Sieve
        scripts to the sealed IMAP server. It is incompatible with the
        "sieveusehomedir" option. It is named after the principal author,
        Tim Martin, who desperately wanted something named after him in the
        Cyrus distribution. 

     2. From your normal account, telnet to the sieve port on the server
        you're setting up: 

           telnet foobar sieve

        If your server is running, you'll get a message similar to the
        following one: 

           Trying 128.2.10.192...
           Connected to foobar.andrew.cmu.edu.
           Escape character is '^]'.
           "CMU Experimental Sieved version 0.99" "SASL={GSSAPI, ANONYMOUS, PLAIN, KERBEROS_V4}"

        Any message other than one similar to the one above means there is
        a problem. Make sure all of authentication methods you wish to
        support are listed. This list should be identical to the one listed
        by "imapd" earlier. Next terminate the connection, by typing
        "logout". 

     3. Next test authenticating to the sieve server. To do this run the
        "installsieve" utility. You must specify the server. You may have
        to specify the port if you run this utility from a different
        machine without the "sieve" entry in "/etc/services". To specify
        the port use the "-p [port]" switch. 

          "installsieve foobar"

        This should produce the message "Authentication failed" with a
        description of the failure if there was a problem. 

     4. Next you should attempt to place a sieve script on the server. To
        do this create a file named "myscript.script" with the following
        lines. Replace "foo@example.org" with an email address you can send
        mail from, but that is not the one you are working on now. 

          require ["reject","fileinto"];

          if address :is :all "From" "foo@example.org"
          {
            reject "testing";
          }

        To place this script on the server run the following command
        "installsieve -i myscript.script foobar" This should place your
        script on the server and make it the active script. 

     5. Test that the sieve script is actually run from deliver. Send a
        message to the address you're working on from the address mentioned
        in the sieve script. The message should be rejected. 

