Administering Mailboxes

    The "cyradm" command (see the cyradm(8) man page for complete
    documentation) manages the creation of, deletion of, ACLs on, and
    quotas on mailboxes. To get an overview of the command, type "cyradm
    <host>". Once "cyradm" has started, the user prompt is replaced with
    the name of the host followed by a ">". Type "help" at the new prompt.
    The following information is displayed: 

       createmailbox, cm        create a mailbox
       deleteaclmailbox, dam    delete an ACL on a mailbox
       deletemailbox, dm        delete a mailbox
       help                     get help on commands
       listaclmailbox, lam      list the ACL on a mailbox
       listmailbox, lm          list mailboxes
       listquota, lq            list quota on root
       listquotaroot, lqr, lqm  list quota roots on mailbox
       quit                     exit program
       renamemailbox, renm      rename a mailbox
       setaclmailbox, sam       set an ACL on a mailbox
       setquota, sq             set quota limits

    Note:It's not necessary to run "cyradm" on the same system as the IMAP
    server. 

    Note:If you run "cyradm" on a system not using Kerberos for
    authentication, you will be prompted for your user name and password
    before you can issue any "cyradm" commands. Use the "-u" option to
    specify a particular user. 

    The mailbox naming convention requires that the primary mailbox (inbox)
    for anyone must be named "user.<userid>". To create a mailbox, type: 

       createmailbox user.<userid>

    For example, to create a mailbox for the userid "smith", type: 

       createmailbox user.smith

    To limit "smith" to 10,000 kilobytes of mail, type: 

       setquota user.smith 10000

    Once the inbox is created, users can create their own additional
    mailboxes from a mail program. If Smith created a work mailbox and a
    play mailbox, the full names of the mailboxes would be: 

       user.smith.work
       user.smith.play

    Access rights are discussed in detail in the cyradm(1) man pages. Note
    that the administrator must grant herself delete access explicitly
    before she can delete a mailbox: 

       setaclmailbox <mail_box> <admin_userid> d
       deletemailbox <mail_box>

    Once you have created mailboxes, your IMAP server installation is done.
    You must then configure a mail interface, such as Pine or Mulberry, to
    work with the IMAP server. 

