                Cyrus IMAP Server Release Information

    IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) is an Internet standards-track
    protocol for accessing messages (mail, bboards, news, etc). The Cyrus
    IMAP server differs from other IMAP server implementations in that it
    is generally intended to be run on "sealed" servers, where normal users
    are not permitted to log in. The mailbox database is stored in parts of
    the filesystem that are private to the Cyrus IMAP system. All user
    access to mail is through the IMAP, POP3, or KPOP protocols. 

    The private mailbox database design gives the server large advantages
    in efficiency, scalability, and administratability. Multiple concurrent
    read/write connections to the same mailbox are permitted. The server
    supports access control lists on mailboxes and storage quotas on
    mailbox hierarchies. 

Features

    The Cyrus server supports the IMAP4rev1 protocol described in RFC 2060,
    with the exception that it does not currently support the hierarchical
    behavior of the RENAME command. IMAP4rev1 has been approved as a
    proposed standard. 

    Character sets supported for searching are: us-ascii, iso-8859-1,
    iso-8859-2, iso-8859-3, iso-8859-4, iso-8859-5, iso-8859-6, iso-8859-7,
    iso-8859-8, iso-8859-9, koi8-r, and iso-2022-jp. The character mapping
    tables most likely contain errors. 

    The server supports any authentication mechanism available from the
    SASL library. Currently, support includes: KERBEROS_V4, GSSAPI,
    CRAM-MD5, DIGEST-MD5, and STARTLS. 

    The server also has support for imaps/pops (IMAP/POP encrypted using
    SSL). 

    We current support the following IMAP capabilities: IMAP4 IMAP4rev1 ACL
    QUOTA LITERAL+ NAMESPACE UIDPLUS NO_ATOMIC_RENAME UNSELECT MULTIAPPEND. 

Upgrade Caveats

    This section reserved for WARNING WARNING WARNING comments. 

Installation Overview

    This system should be expected to have the same order-of-magnitude
    installation complexity as a netnews system. Maintenance should have
    similar complexity, except administrators will have to deal with
    creation and deletion of users and will have the option of managing
    quotas and access control lists. 

    This package is distributed as a source only release. It is expected
    that you can compile and configure software. Installation instructions
    are in the install.html. Please be sure to read this document. 

    A detailed overview of the server is available in overview.html. 

    This server has been successfully installed on a number of Unix
    systems. We run the software under SPARC Solaris 2.6. Please refer to
    os.html for operating system specific issues. 

Server Notes

    The mailbox namespace is like that for netnews--hierarchical names
    separated by the "." character. Mailboxes without a parent may only be
    created by an administrator. Mailboxes with a parent may be created as
    the ACL (Access Control List) on the parent mailbox permits. 

    Users' personal mailboxes are under the "user" hierarchy. The names of
    the personal mailboxes for user "bovik" all start with the prefix
    "user.bovik.". The mailbox "user.bovik" is special in that it is
    presented to user "bovik" as if it were named "INBOX". Creating the
    mailbox "user.bovik" is equivalent to creating an account for user
    "bovik"--it permits "bovik" to receive mail, create personal mailboxes,
    and subscribe to mailboxes. Deleting the mailbox "user.bovik" has the
    special-case side-effect of deleting all mailboxes starting with
    "user.bovik." and of deleting the subscriptions for "bovik." 

Summary

    If you want to install the server, be sure to read the installation
    instructions in install.html". More details about the server
    implementation is in the server overview document. 

    Please refer to Sending Feedback if you would like to submit a bug,
    feature request or (best of all) patch. 

    There is a mailing list. See the mailing list document for details. 

